---
layout: post
title:      "Why I Started Coding"
date:       2017-06-14 16:15:57 -0400
permalink:  why_i_started_coding
---


This is the ultimate question for this school, isn’t it? Why did I want to learn software development? Well, this question has been asked to me several times before, and not just from this school. Being a young female, I suppose this question gets asked a lot.

I think the feminist in me wanted to learn code for the simple reason of people thinking I couldn’t. This is something that fuels me in many different areas, I’ll admit, but it’s not enough of a reason to continue in code. Coding is hard. It takes a lot of effort and thinking, but at the same time, it takes the ability to not think too much. Unfortunately, this is an ability I lack still, but I think I’m picking up on it. This area of work requires you to. It requires you to change or warp the way you think to match a program, which seems like a simple task until you actually attempt it.

The thing I tell people that blows their minds is simply this: I enjoy coding. I have fun doing it. Yes, it does make me a little crazy sometimes with hair pulling and the occasional fight with my computer, but it seems to be worth it. The feeling of solving a problem in the coding environment that has taken a long time, sometimes days, is a feeling similar to what I think doing drugs would be like. It’s such instant ecstasy, it creates a sort of addiction. Solving these labs makes me want to jump out of my chair, hands in the air, and yell “yes!” far too loudly. Most of the time, I’m in public, so this would likely be frowned upon, but I do it in my mind anyway. 

Whenever I try to explain coding to other people, I usually get blank stares. I tell them it’s like learning a new language, with the caveat of having to make that language actually do something. It isn’t there to simply communicate or be read; it is there to perform an action. I don’t think that can be said for any other language. This is a concept that is a little hard to grasp. What also seems to be hard for some people is understanding that this language looks nothing like the product. One of my favorite responses after I showed a friend what I was working on was, “You mean all those letters and numbers make that?” We were talking about our school website which I had showed her the source code of. It completely blew her mind. She didn’t understand how the code created a user-friendly website that was actually functional just off of “letters and numbers”. 

As expected, after showing people what it is that coding consists of, the follow up question is always, “well why would you want to do that?” I suppose it’s a fair question to ask, but to me, it is like any other career. Why would you want to be a police officer or a school teacher? It’s just that the reason for those are easier to understand than the reasons behind coding. People who code do it because they like a challenge. It could be said that people code for the money, which is definitely a plus, but in my opinion, no one would last in coding if it were just for the money. It’s like being a doctor or a lawyer. Those jobs are supposed to get you a substantial amount of money, but not a lot of people are willing to go through the seven years of schooling and two plus years of interning to get to that point. It’s something you have to want. 

In my case, I have always been a fast learner. Academics were no problem for me. I didn’t have a hard time in school until my sophomore year because I switched to a college prepatory school based off of the Cambridge program (long phrase for extra-super-hard high school). I went there for a reason. I needed a challenge. I enjoyed being pushed past what I thought I could do only to prove to myself that I can do a lot more than that. I realized that I understood how a lot of things worked, but one large part of my life was a complete mystery. The internet. I had no clue as to how the internet worked or how websites functioned or how a piece of metal inside a computer could store information. It was all magic to me. It was the one thing I knew nothing about, and when I started learning about it, my curiosity only grew. I wanted to know more. I wanted to understand. It became the most interesting topic I had ever touched and I knew I would never get bored with it. Once I figured something out, ten more questions appeared. So I started coding completely on my own. I opened a notepad on my computer and started working with HTML. I learned how to create a basic webpage that could only be opened from my desktop. This was fun, and I found myself getting lost in it, working on one thing for hours at a time without realizing how late it had gotten. That’s what made me search for a teacher. I needed some sort of mentor or program to continue my learning because what I had touched was barely the surface. When I realized that, coding became even more appealing to me.

It does seem crazy that a girl my age would be interested in learning how to code for anything more than the money. I agree sometimes. Coding pushes my brain to interpret and remember all these new, complicated concepts, and it truly is fun. It is problem solving at its finest. I believe that this form of problem solving has changed me into a solutions-oriented person. In my personal and work life, I find myself coming up with three or more possible solutions to every problem that gets brought up, even if those solutions seem odd. Coding has made me see there is nothing that is impossible. With all the barriers we face in today’s society, it’s easy to think there is not much you can do. A lot of things seem impossible. WIth coding, suddenly nothing seems impossible, whether it’s related to a computer or not. 

